A conveyor belt has packages that must be shipped from one port to another within `days` days.

The `ith` package on the conveyor belt has a weight of `weights[i]`. Each day, we load the ship with packages on the conveyor belt (in the order given by `weights`). We may not load more weight than the maximum weight capacity of the ship.

Return the least weight capacity of the ship that will result in all the packages on the conveyor belt being shipped within `days` days.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** weights = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10], days = 5
**Output:** 15
**Explanation:** A ship capacity of 15 is the minimum to ship all the packages in 5 days like this:
1st day: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
2nd day: 6, 7
3rd day: 8
4th day: 9
5th day: 10

Note that the cargo must be shipped in the order given, so using a ship of capacity 14 and splitting the packages into parts like (2, 3, 4, 5), (1, 6, 7), (8), (9), (10) is not allowed.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** weights = [3,2,2,4,1,4], days = 3
**Output:** 6
**Explanation:** A ship capacity of 6 is the minimum to ship all the packages in 3 days like this:
1st day: 3, 2
2nd day: 2, 4
3rd day: 1, 4

### Overview

We are given some packages with weights given in `weights` which must be shipped from one port to another. We have a ship that has some capacity, and it can ship packages (in the order given by `weights`) having a total weight less than or equal to its capacity each day.

Our task is to find the minimum capacity of the ship so that we can ship all the packages within `days` days.

---

### Approach: Binary Search

#### Intuition

An intuitive approach would be to start with checking ship capacity equal to the largest weight in `weights`, say `w`. The ship's capacity cannot be smaller than `w`. We check if it is possible to ship all the packages within `days` days, using `w` as the capacity of the ship. If we are able to ship all the packages within the required days, we have `w` as our required answer.

Otherwise, we increment the capacity and try with `w + 1`. If we are able to ship the packages within the required days now, `w + 1` is the answer. Otherwise, we try with ship's capacity as `w + 2`.

How long can we go? In the worst case, we might need to choose the capacity of the ship equal to the sum of all the weights in `weights` and send them all in one day. So, our range starts from the largest weight and goes until the sum of the weights in `weights`.

This approach will provide the right answer to all the test cases but will indicate that the time limit has been exceeded. Because, in the worst case, we might need to check the ship's capacity from the largest weight to the sum of all elements in `weights`. The sum of all elements can reach `n * 500`, since `500` is the maximum weight we can have as per the problem constraints. So, we might need to check O(n⋅500) different values of ship capacity. For each capacity, we need to iterate over all the elements of `weights` to check whether we can ship the packages in the required number of days or not, this would require O(n)O(n)O(n) time. As a result, the total time required would be O(n⋅n⋅500)=O(n2⋅500)O(n \cdot n \cdot 500) = O(n^2 \cdot 500)O(n⋅n⋅500)=O(n2⋅500) which would lead to TLE.

Let's think of a faster way by making some observations.

If we cannot ship the packages in the required days with capacity `A`, we can never ship the packages with capacity less than `A`. Also, if we can ship the packages in the required days with capacity `B`, we can always ship it with capacity greater than `B`. So, in such a case, the optimal capacity lies between `[A + 1, B]` (both inclusive).

A scenario like this where our task is to search for an element `X` from a given range `(L, R)` where all values smaller than `X` do not satisfy a certain condition and all values greater than or equal to `X` satisfy it (or vice-versa), can be solved optimally with a binary search algorithm. In binary search, we repeatedly divide the solution space where the answer could be in half until the range contains just one element.


```java
class Solution {
    public int shipWithinDays(int[] weights, int days) {
        List<Integer> arr = Arrays.stream(weights).boxed().collect(Collectors.toList());
        int left = Collections.max(arr);
        int right = arr.stream().mapToInt(i -> i).sum();

        while(left < right) {
            int mid = left + (right - left) / 2;
            
            if(isShippingPossibleWithinMDays(weights, mid, days)) {
                right = mid;
            } else {
                left = mid + 1;
            }
        }
        
        return left;
    }
    
    private boolean isShippingPossibleWithinMDays(int[] nums, int sum, int m) {
        int currSum = 0, splits = 0;
        for(int num : nums) {
            currSum += num;
            
            if(currSum > sum) {
                currSum = num;
                splits++;
                
                if(splits > m - 1) {
                    return false;
                }
            }
        }
        
        return true;
    }
}
```