Given a string `s` and an integer `k`, return `true` if `s` is a `k`**-palindrome**.

A string is `k`**-palindrome** if it can be transformed into a palindrome by removing at most `k` characters from it.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** s = "abcdeca", k = 2
**Output:** true
**Explanation:** Remove 'b' and 'e' characters.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** s = "abbababa", k = 1
**Output:** true

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 1000`
- `s` consists of only lowercase English letters.
- `1 <= k <= s.length`


## Solution


#### Approach 1: Top-Down DP (2D)

**Intuition**

Let's try to find the minimum number of character that can be removed to make the string a palindrome. If we see that the minimum number is less than or equal to `k` we can conclude that it is indeed a K-Palindrome, else it is not.

**Similar Problems:**

- [[72. Edit Distance]]
- [516. Longest Palindromic Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-subsequence/)

**Algorithm**

How do we find the minimum characters to be removed to make it a palindrome?  
Let's imagine matching the characters of the string like a palindrome, from the beginning and the end with 2 pointers `i` and `j`.  
We may encounter the following two scenarios:

1. The character at `i` matches character at `j`.
2. The characters don't match each other.

For case 1 we just increase the pointer `i` and decrease the pointer `j`, `i++` and `j--` respectively.

In the second case we have 2 options:

- Remove character at `j` and see if the previous character matches character at `i`.

Or

- Remove character at `i` and see if the next character matches character at `j`.

Since we are not actually removing the characters from the string but just calculating the number of characters to be removed,  
in case 1 we decrement the pointer `j` by 1 and `i` stays as it is, as we still need a character to match character at `i`  
and in case 2 we increment the pointer `i` by 1 and `j` stays as it is, as we still need a character to match character at `j`.  
In both the cases we remove 1 character and thus it adds 1 to the cost.

We can then use these two different pairs of new `i` and `j` values (`i+1, j` and `i, j-1`) to again repeat the process and get the minimum result of them as our result for current pair `i, j`.

We can see that this is recursive and thus we can use recursion with caching to store the repeated values.

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean isValidPalindrome(String s, int k) {
        Integer[][] memo = new Integer[s.length()][s.length()];

        return dfs(s, 0, s.length() - 1, memo) <= k;
    }

    private int dfs(String s, int i, int j, Integer[][] memo) {
        // single character, will always be equal.
        if(i == j) {
            return 0;
        }

        if(i == j - 1) {
            return s.charAt(i) != s.charAt(j) ? 1 : 0;
        }

        if(memo[i][j] != null) {
            return memo[i][j];
        }

        if(s.charAt(i) == s.charAt(j)) {
            return memo[i][j] = dfs(s, i + 1, j - 1, memo);
        }

        return memo[i][j] = 1 + Math.min(
            dfs(s, i + 1, j, memo),
            dfs(s, i, j - 1, memo)
        );
    }
}
```