Given an integer array `nums`, design an algorithm to randomly shuffle the array. All permutations of the array should be **equally likely** as a result of the shuffling.

Implement the `Solution` class:

- `Solution(int[] nums)` Initializes the object with the integer array `nums`.
- `int[] reset()` Resets the array to its original configuration and returns it.
- `int[] shuffle()` Returns a random shuffling of the array.

**Example 1:**

**Input**
["Solution", "shuffle", "reset", "shuffle"]
[[[1, 2, 3]], [], [], []]
**Output**
[null, [3, 1, 2], [1, 2, 3], [1, 3, 2]]

**Explanation**
Solution solution = new Solution([1, 2, 3]);
solution.shuffle();    // Shuffle the array [1,2,3] and return its result.
                       // Any permutation of [1,2,3] must be equally likely to be returned.
                       // Example: return [3, 1, 2]
solution.reset();      // Resets the array back to its original configuration [1,2,3]. Return [1, 2, 3]
solution.shuffle();    // Returns the random shuffling of array [1,2,3]. Example: return [1, 3, 2]

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 50`
- `-106 <= nums[i] <= 106`
- All the elements of `nums` are **unique**.
- At most `104` calls **in total** will be made to `reset` and `shuffle`.

## Solution


#### Approach #2 Fisher-Yates Algorithm

**Intuition**

We can cut down the time and space complexities of `shuffle` with a bit of  
cleverness - namely, by swapping elements around within the array itself, we  
can avoid the linear space cost of the auxiliary array and the linear time  
cost of list modification.

**Algorithm**

The Fisher-Yates algorithm is remarkably similar to the brute force solution.  
On each iteration of the algorithm, we generate a random integer between the  
current index and the last index of the array. Then, we swap the elements at  
the current index and the chosen index - this simulates drawing (and  
removing) the element from the hat, as the next range from which we select a  
random index will not include the most recently processed one. One small, yet important  
detail is that it is possible to swap an element with itself - otherwise, some  
array permutations would be more likely than others. To see this illustrated more  
clearly, consider the animation below:

```java
class Solution {

    private int[] array;
    private int[] original;
    private Random rand;

    public Solution(int[] nums) {
        array = nums;
        original = nums.clone();
        rand = new Random();
    }
    
    public int[] reset() {
        array = original;
        original = original.clone();
        return array;
    }
    
    public int[] shuffle() {
        int n = array.length;
        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            swapAt(i, randRange(i, n));
        }

        return array;
    }

    private int randRange(int min, int max) {
        return rand.nextInt(max - min) + min;
    }

    private void swapAt(int i, int j) {
        int temp = array[i];
        array[i] = array[j];
        array[j] = temp;
    }
}
```