Given an integer array `nums`, return _the **third distinct maximum** number in this array. If the third maximum does not exist, return the **maximum** number_.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [3,2,1]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:**
The first distinct maximum is 3.
The second distinct maximum is 2.
The third distinct maximum is 1.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [1,2]
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:**
The first distinct maximum is 2.
The second distinct maximum is 1.
The third distinct maximum does not exist, so the maximum (2) is returned instead.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [2,2,3,1]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:**
The first distinct maximum is 3.
The second distinct maximum is 2 (both 2's are counted together since they have the same value).
The third distinct maximum is 1.

## Solution

### Approach 2: Min Heap Data Structure

#### Intuition

We can use one max heap data structure and keep all distinct numbers of our array in sorted order.

> A max heap is a complete binary tree, in which the key present at the root node must be greatest among the keys present at all of it’s children. And the same property must be recursively true for all sub-trees in that tree.  
> If you are not familiar with heaps and priority queues, you can learn about them in our [explore card](https://leetcode.com/explore/featured/card/heap/643/heap/4018/).

The max heap will keep the largest number on the top, thus we can get the 3th3^{th}3th largest number from it.

But we can further optimize this method.

We are keeping all array numbers in the heap instead while iterating the given array we can keep the three largest numbers till now in the heap and when a new number comes which is larger than any one of those three numbers, we remove the smallest among them and push this new number in the heap.  
At any moment, the heap will only have three numbers in it.

But we need to tell which is the smallest number among all numbers in the heap, thus we have to use a **min heap**.

If after iterating over the given array, the heap does not contain three elements, it means that three distinct elements were not present in the array, thus in that case we return the maximum element among the elements stored in the min heap.

Also, we can keep one hash set to prevent the insertion of already used numbers in the min heap and the hash set can also maintain a size of three elements just like the min heap.  
If a number is removed from the min heap it can also be removed from the hash set as all the numbers in the min heap are greater than the removed number and it will never be inserted again in the heap.

```java
class Solution {
    public int thirdMax(int[] nums) {
        HashSet<Integer> seen = new HashSet<>();
        PriorityQueue<Integer> queue = new PriorityQueue<>();

        for(int num : nums) {
            if(seen.contains(num)) {
                continue;
            }

            seen.add(num);
            if(queue.size() == 3) {
                if(queue.peek() < num) {
                    queue.poll();
                    queue.add(num);
                }
            } else {
                queue.add(num);
            }
        }

        if(queue.size() == 3) {
            return queue.peek();
        } else {
            int max = -1;
            while(!queue.isEmpty()) {
                max = Math.max(max, queue.poll());
            }
            return max;
        }
    }

    public int thirdMaxUsingSet(int[] nums) {
        
        Set<Integer> set = new HashSet<>();
        
        for(int num : nums) {
            set.add(num);
            
            if(set.size() > 3) {
                set.remove(Collections.min(set));
            }
        }
        
        if(set.size() == 3) {
            return Collections.min(set);
        }
        
        return Collections.max(set);
    }
}
```

#### Complexity Analysis

If NNN is the number of elements in the input array.

- Time complexity: O(N).
    
    - We iterate on `nums` array and can push each element in the min heap and hash set once.
        
    - Time taken to push and pop elements from min heap depends on number of elements in the heap (or height of the heap), and as here the heap will have at most three elements in it, those operations are considered constant time operations.
        
    - Thus, overall it takes O(N) time.
        
- Space complexity: O(1).
    
    - Both the min heap and hashset will only have at most three elements in them thus, it is considered as constant space usage.

### Approach 3: Ordered Set

#### Intuition

A set is a data structure that only keeps unique elements in it and an ordered set keeps those unique elements in sorted order.

> **Note:** If you don't know, the inner implementation of this data structure is basically a self-balancing binary search tree. Thus, insertions, deletions, searching, etc. basically take logarithmic time.  
> Not going into much detail about their implementation we will now focus on the problem statement.

Similar to the previous approach, instead of priority queue, we can use an ordered set to keep track of largest three elements of the array at any time. And as we can search any element in the set we don't have to use any other data structure to track already used elements.

#### Algorithm

1. Initialize variables:
    
    - `sortedNums`, an ordered set to store elements
2. Iterate on all numbers of the `nums` array:
    
    - If the current number is already in the ordered set, we skip it.
    - If the ordered set has three numbers in it, and if the current number is greater than the smallest number in it, then remove the smallest number and push the current number in it.
    - Otherwise, if the ordered set has less than three elements, then just push the current number in it.
3. If the ordered set has three elements in it, return the smallest element among all elements present in the set, which will be the third largest number of the `nums` array.
    
4. Otherwise, return the biggest element of the ordered set, which will be the largest number of the `nums` array.
    

#### Implementation
```java
class Solution {
    public int thirdMax(int[] nums) {
        // Sorted set to keep elements in sorted order.
        TreeSet<Integer> sortedNums = new TreeSet<Integer>();
        
        // Iterate on all elements of 'nums' array.
        for (int num : nums) {
            // Do not insert same element again.
            if (sortedNums.contains(num)) {
                continue;
            }
            
            // If sorted set has 3 elements.
            if (sortedNums.size() == 3) {
                // And the smallest element is smaller than current element.
                if (sortedNums.first() < num) {
                    // Then remove the smallest element and push the current element.
                    sortedNums.pollFirst();
                    sortedNums.add(num);
                }
                
            } 
            // Otherwise push the current element of nums array.
            else {
                sortedNums.add(num);
            }
        }
        
        // If sorted set has three elements return the smallest among those 3.
        if (sortedNums.size() == 3) {
            return sortedNums.first();
        }
        
        // Otherwise return the biggest element of nums array.
        return sortedNums.last();
    }
}
```


### Approach 4: 3 Pointers

#### Intuition

We know we only have to keep track of the top three largest numbers of arrays while traversing through it.  
This could also be done by using three variables, `firstMax`, which stores the largest number in the array till now, `secondMax`, which stores the second largest number till now, and, `thirdMax`, which stores the third largest number.

We will use long integer variable because the minimum possible value in the input array is 2^{31}, and initially, we need to store a value lower than this.  
In the end we compared if the `thirdMax` variable is equal to the initial value, to check if we had three different numbers in our array or not.  
But if we store 2^{31} as the initial value then, it will not give the correct answer.

For example, consider a case, `array = [1, 2, $-2^{31}$]`.  
Now at the end, `firstMax = 2`, `secondMax = 1`, `thirdMax = $-2^{31}$`.  
Thus, now we will think `thirdMax` still has the initial value thus this variable is not changed and we will assume the array doesn't have 3 different numbers and will return the wrong answer.

Now, if while traversing the array:

- the current number is already stored in any of the three variables, it means we will not use it again.
- the current number is greater than `firstMax`, then, the current number will become the largest of all numbers and `firstMax` will become the second largest, and `secondMax` will become the third largest number.
- the current number is not greater than `firstMax` but greater than `secondMax`, then, the current number will become the second largest, and `secondMax` will become the third largest number.
- the current number is smaller than `firstMax` and `secondMax`, but greater than `thirdMax`, then, the current number will become the third largest number.
- the current number is smaller than all three, then it will have no effect on those three variables.

So, while traversing the array we update these three variables based on the current number.

#### Algorithm

1. Initialize variables:
    
    - `firstMax`, `secondMax`, and `thirdMax`, to a value less than the minimum possible integer in the array.
2. Iterate on all numbers of the `nums` array:
    
    - If the current number is already stored in any of three variables we will skip this number.
    - If the current number is greater than, `firstMax`, update all three variables.
    - Otherwise, if the current number if greater than, `secondMax`, update `secondMax` and `thirdMax`.
    - Otherwise, if the current number if greater than, `thirdMax`, update `thirdMax`.
3. If `thirdMax` still has the initial value it means we, never had three distinct numbers, return `firstMax`, the largest number.
    
4. Otherwise, return the third largest number, `thirdMax`.

```java
class Solution {
    public int thirdMax(int[] nums) {
        // Three variables to store maxiumum three numbers till now.
        long firstMax = Long.MIN_VALUE;
        long secondMax = Long.MIN_VALUE;
        long thirdMax = Long.MIN_VALUE;
        
        for (int num : nums) {
            // This number is already used once, thus we skip it.
            if (firstMax == num || secondMax == num || thirdMax == num) {
                continue;
            }
            
            // If current number is greater than first maximum,
            // It means that this is the greatest number and first maximum and second max
            // will become the next two greater numbers.
            if (firstMax <= num) {
                thirdMax = secondMax;
                secondMax = firstMax;
                firstMax = num;
            }
            // When current number is greater than second maximum,
            // it means that this is the second greatest number.
            else if (secondMax <= num) {
                thirdMax = secondMax;
                secondMax = num;
            }
            // It is the third greatest number.
            else if (thirdMax <= num) {
                thirdMax = num;
            }
        }
        
        // If third max was never updated, it means we don't have 3 distinct numbers.
        if (thirdMax == Long.MIN_VALUE) {
            int ans = (int) firstMax;
            return ans;
        }
        
        int ans = (int) thirdMax;
        return ans;
    }
}
```

