Given an array of integers `temperatures` represents the daily temperatures, return _an array_ `answer` _such that_ `answer[i]` _is the number of days you have to wait after the_ `ith` _day to get a warmer temperature_. If there is no future day for which this is possible, keep `answer[i] == 0` instead.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** temperatures = [73,74,75,71,69,72,76,73]
**Output:** [1,1,4,2,1,1,0,0]

**Example 2:**

**Input:** temperatures = [30,40,50,60]
**Output:** [1,1,1,0]

**Example 3:**

**Input:** temperatures = [30,60,90]
**Output:** [1,1,0]


## Solution

#### Overview

In this problem, we are given a list of temperatures where the temperature at index i represents the temperature of the ith day. Our goal is to, for each day, find the number of days until the next day that is warmer than the current day. Often, the best place to start solving a problem is by considering a brute-force approach. The naive/brute-force way to solve this problem is to iterate through the array, and for each day, iterate through all of the remaining days until you find a warmer temperature. This approach would have a time complexity of O(N^2), which is very slow given the constraints 10^5. What makes brute-force so inefficient?

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] dailyTemperatures(int[] temperatures) {
        int n = temperatures.length;
        int[] answer = new int[n];
        for (int day = 0; day < n; day++) {
            for (int futureDay = day + 1; futureDay < n; futureDay++) {
                if (temperatures[futureDay] > temperatures[day]) {
                    answer[day] = futureDay - day;
                    break;
                }
            }
        }

        return answer;
    }
}
```

#### Approach 1: Monotonic Stack

Let's look at a data structure known as a [Monotonic Stack](https://leetcode.com/tag/monotonic-stack/). A monotonic stack is simply a stack where the elements are always in sorted order. How does this help us? We can use a monotonic decreasing stack to hold temperatures. Monotonic **decreasing** means that the stack will always be sorted in descending order. Because the problem is asking for the **number** of days, instead of storing the temperatures themselves, we should store the indices of the days, and use `temperatures[i]` to find the temperature of the `ith` day.

> Monotonic stacks are a good option when a problem involves comparing the size of numeric elements, with their order being relevant.

On each day, there are two possibilities. If the current day's temperature is not warmer than the temperature on the top of the stack, we can just push the current day onto the stack - since it is not as warm (equal or smaller), this will maintain the sorted property.

If the current day's temperature is warmer than the temperature on top of the stack, this is significant. It means that the current day is the **first** day with a warmer temperature than the day associated with the temperature on top of the stack. When we find a warmer temperature, the number of days is the difference between the current index and the index on the top of the stack. We can declare an `answer` array before iterating through the input and populate `answer` as we go along.

When we find a warmer temperature, we can't stop after checking only one element at the top. Using the example `temperatures = [75, 71, 69, 72]`, once we arrive at the last day our stack looks like `stack = [0, 1, 2]`. For clarity, here's what the stack looks like with each temperature associated with the day: `stack = [(0, 75), (1, 71), (2, 69)]`. `72` (the current temperature) is greater than `69`, but it is also greater than `71`. To make sure we don't miss any days, we should pop from the stack until the top of the stack is no longer colder than the current temperature. Once that is the case, we can push the current day onto the stack.

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] dailyTemperatures(int[] T) {
        Stack<Integer> stack = new Stack<Integer>();
        int[] result = new int[T.length];
        
        for(int currentDay = 0 ; currentDay < T.length ; currentDay++) {
            
            // Here we maintain the decreasing stack. 
            while(!stack.isEmpty() && T[currentDay] > T[stack.peek()]) {
                int previousDay = stack.pop();
                result[previousDay] = currentDay - previousDay;
            }
            stack.push(currentDay);
        }
        
        return result;
    }
}
```