Given a positive integer `n`, find and return _the **longest distance** between any two **adjacent**_ `1`_'s in the binary representation of_ `n`_. If there are no two adjacent_ `1`_'s, return_ `0`_._

Two `1`'s are **adjacent** if there are only `0`'s separating them (possibly no `0`'s). The **distance** between two `1`'s is the absolute difference between their bit positions. For example, the two `1`'s in `"1001"` have a distance of 3.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** n = 22
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** 22 in binary is "10110".
The first adjacent pair of 1's is "10110" with a distance of 2.
The second adjacent pair of 1's is "10110" with a distance of 1.
The answer is the largest of these two distances, which is 2.
Note that "10110" is not a valid pair since there is a 1 separating the two 1's underlined.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** n = 8
**Output:** 0
**Explanation:** 8 in binary is "1000".
There are not any adjacent pairs of 1's in the binary representation of 8, so we return 0.

**Example 3:**

**Input:** n = 5
**Output:** 2
**Explanation:** 5 in binary is "101".

## Solution

#### Approach 1: Store Indexes

**Intuition**

Since we wanted to inspect the distance between consecutive 1s in the binary representation of `N`, let's write down the index of each `1` in that binary representation. For example, if `N = 22 = 0b10110`, then we'll write `A = [1, 2, 4]`. This makes it easier to proceed, as now we have a problem about adjacent values in an array.

**Algorithm**

Let's make a list `A` of indices `i` such that `N` has the `i`th bit set.

With this array `A`, finding the maximum distance between consecutive `1`s is much easier: it's the maximum distance between adjacent values of this array.

```java
class Solution {
    public int binaryGap(int n) {
        int[] A = new int[32];
        int t = 0;

        for(int i = 0; i < 32; i++) {
            if(((n >> i) & 1) != 0) {
                A[t++] = i;
            }
        }

        int ans = 0;
        for(int i = 0; i < t - 1; i++) {
            ans = Math.max(ans, A[i + 1] - A[i]);
        }

        return ans;
    }
}
```